# 2023.08.02

## Done

- changed TargetScan sequences back to DNA form (5to3, with thymines)
- added miRNA conservations to miRBase 22 using TargetScan. 102 miRNAs have no conservation so their conservation values are taken from the miRNA with the closest sequence instead
	- these conservation values are taken directly from TargetScan site and they represent the conservation of the miRNA family. So deriving by the sequence might not be a good idea?
- edited generate_au_content_column_for_vcf(vcf_df) of step 8 to extend MRE region for 30 nts and use that sequence to calculate AU content. It was using a window that is centered on mutation. This way it is slightly better.
- in def generate_au_content_column_for_vcf(vcf_df) of step 8, raw additions and subtitutions of 30 nucleotides may cause the indices to fall below 0 or above the len
- checked au content column function and didn't find any problems
- added 0_fetch_transcripts_from_pyensembl.ipynb that fetches every transcript found in assemblies GrCh37/38 using pyensembl
- solved xgb giving non-binary outputs.
	- Model saved as json instead of .xgb
	- imported as "from xgboost import XGBClassifier" instead of "import xgboost as xgb"
	- initiated model in the prediction script as "model = XGBClassifier()"
	- XGBClassifier works with pandas df. no need to convert to xgb's own DMatrix dtype

- renamed midpoint & close proximity

## Toplantı Notları

fetch annotations

convert grch38 miRNAs into grch37 (cli tool liftover

https://github.com/sritchie73/liftOverPlink/blob/master/README.md)

parallelize find_matches_for_vcf function (abstractten sonra)

xgb neden floating point output veriyor?

- [x] mirna_conservation na'leri sekansla en yakın olan mirna'nın değerini alacak şekilde doldur

- [x] check au_content function

2 figures, feature importance & showcase
